The term ‘Computer’ is derived from……….? Latin
Who is the inventor of “Difference Engine”? Charles Babbage
Who is the father of Computer? Charles Babbage
Who is the father of Computer science? Allen Turing
Who is the father of personal computer? Edward Robert
A CPU contains? a control unit and an arithmetic logic unit
Which of the following controls the process of interaction between the user and the operating system? User interface
The first computers were programmed using? machine language
……….is a combination of hardware and software that facilitates the sharing of information between computing devices? network
Coded entries which are used to gain access to a computer system are called? Passwords
You organize files by storing them in? folders
What type of resource is most likely to be a shared common resource in a computer network?                 Printers
Which device is required for the Internet connection? Modem
What is a light pen? Optical input device
UNIVAC is? Universal Automatic Computer
CD-ROM stands for? Compactable Read Only Memory
ALU is? Arithmetic Logic Unit
VGA is? Video Graphics Array
IBM 1401 is Second Generation Computer
MSI stands for? Medium Scale Integrated Circuits
The capacity of 3.5 inch floppy disk is? 1.44 MB ( Computer Science Quiz )
WAN stands for? Wide Area Network
MICR stands for Magnetic Ink Character Reader
EBCDIC stands for? Extended Binary Coded Decimal Interchange Code
CAD stands for ?Computer aided design
Junk e-mail is also called? spam
Hackers does? break into other people’s computers
What type of computers are client computers (most of the time) in a client-server system? Microcomputer
A computer cannot ‘boot’ if it does not have the? Operating System
The amount of vertical space between lines of text in a document is called line spacing
Example of non-numeric data is Employee address
What is embedded system? The computer and software system that control the machine 
First page of Website is termed as? Homepage
………………… Is the appearance of typed characters? Format
When a file is saved for the first time it must be given a name to identify it
Office LANS, which are scattered geographically on large scale, can be connected by the use of corporate WAN
Where are data and programme stored when the processor uses them? Main memory
…………… represents raw facts, where-as…………….. is data made meaningful. Data, information
What characteristic of read-only memory (ROM) makes it useful? Data in ROM is non-volatile, that is, it remains there even without electrical power.
What do you call the programs that are used to find out possible faults and their causes? diagnostic software
Which programming languages are classified as low level languages? Assembly languages
Which of the following is not anti- viruses’ software? Oracle
Which device is required for the Internet connection? Modem
What does DMA stand for? Direct Memory Access
Which of the following is a storage device? All of the above
When did John Napier develop logarithm? 1614
A normal CD- ROM usually can store up to _________ _data? 680 MB
MIS is designed to provide information needed for effective decision making by? Managers
What is a light pen? Optical input device
BCD is? Binary Coded Decimal
ASCII stands for? American Standard Code for Information Interchange
Which of the following is first generation of computer? EDSAC
Chief component of first generation computer was Vacuum Tubes and Valves
FORTRAN is? Formula Translation 
EEPROM stands for? Electronic Erasable Programmable? Read Only Memory
Second Generation computers were developed during ?1956 to 1965
The computer size was very large in ?First Generation
Microprocessors as switching devices are for which generation computers Fourth Generation
Which of the following devices can be sued to directly image printed text? OCR
The output quality of a printer is measured by? Dot per sq. inch
Who designed the first electronics computer – ENIAC? J. Presper Eckert and John W Mauchly
Who invented the high level language “C”? Dennis M. Ritchie
Personnel who design, program, operate and maintain computer equipment refers to ? Peopleware
When did arch rivals IBM and Apple Computers Indecide to join hands? 1991  ( Computer Science Quiz )
Human beings are referred to as Homosapinens, which device is called Sillico Sapiens? Computer
An error in software or hardware is called a bug. What is the alternative computer jargon for it?                 Glitch
What is the name of the display feature that highlights are of the screen which requires operator attention? Reverse video
Personal computers use a number of chips mounted on a main circuit board.What is the common name for such boards? Motherboard
In most IBM PCs, the CPU, the device drives, memory expansion slots and active components are mounted on a single board.What is the name of this board? Motherboard
What is meant by a dedicated computer? Which is assigned one and only one task
A computer program that converts an entire program into machine language is called a/an ? Compiler
A computer program that translates one program instructions at a time into machine language is called a/an? Interpreter
A small or intelligent device is so called because ? it contains within it a ? Sensor 
A fault in a computer program which prevents it from working correctly is known as ?Bug
A self replicating program, similar to a virus which was taken from a 1970s science fiction novel by John Bruner entitled the Shockwave Rider is Worm
A state. is a bi-stable electronic circuit that has? Flip-flop
Unwanted repetitious messages, such as unsolicited bulk e-mail is known as ? Spam
DOS stands for? Disk Operating System
  Computer Science Quiz
Which of the following is also known as brain of computer? Central Processing unit
IBM stands for? International Business Machines
translates and executes program at run time line by line Interpreter
……………… is an OOP principle? Inheritance
COBOL is widely used in applications involving? Commercial
RAM stands for? Random access memory
1 Byte =? 8 bits
SMPS stands for? Switched mode Power Supply
The device used to carry digital data on analogue lines is called as Modem
VDU is also called? Both 1 & 2
BIOS stands for?                 Basic Input Output system
Father of C programming language? Dennis Ritchie
The instructions that tell a computer how to carry out the processing tasks are referred to as computer? programs
An area of a computer that temporarily holds data waiting to be processed is? Memory
_________ is the key to close a selected drop -down list and cancel a command and close a dialog box.? ESC
Data becomes ……………. when it is presented in a format that people can understand and use? information
…………. Is the functional key to display save-as box? F12
The term …………. designates equipment that might be added to a computer system to enhance its functionality? peripheral device
A ………… is a microprocessor -based computing device ?personal computer
RAM can be treated as the ……… for the computer’s processor? waiting room
To move a copy of file from one computer to another over a communication channel is? File transfer
The primary function of the ………… is to set up the hardware and load and start an operating system?                 BIOS
What kind of memory is both static and non -volatile? ROM
___________is computer software designed to operate the computer hardware and to provide platform for running application software? System software
The ……… is the amount of data that a storage device can move from the storage medium to the Computer per second data? transfer rate 
A device, which is not connected to CPU, is called as ……. ?Off-line device
What is the other name for programmed chip? LSIC
On-line real time systems become popular in ……….. generation? Third Generation
You use a(n) ….., such as a keyboard or mouse, to input information? input device
…………. is the ability of a device to “jump” directly to the requested data? Random access
…………. provides process and memory management services that allow two or more tasks, jobs, or programs to run simultaneously? Multitasking
The task of performing operations like arithmetic and logical operations is called ?Processing
ALU and Control Unit jointly known as ?CPU
RAM is an example of? Primary memory
Magnetic disk is an example of? Secondary memory
Which one of the following is NOT a computer language? MS-Excel
RAM is also called as Read / Write? Memory